chore: Add Generator API ADR (#1218)
SAP/cloud-sdk-js: knowledge-base/adr/0020-generator-options.md

# Title

## Status

proposed

## Context 1

When generating only from one spec (either generator), which is probably the most common use case, when doing this mannually, the resulting folder structure is `<outputDir>/serviceDir`, which in turn is unexpected.
The name of the generator command is: `generate-X-client` indicating that only one client will be generated.

## Decision 1

1. Different behavior if only one specification is found vs. multiple.
   For one specification, put client directly into <outputDir>, for multiple make subdirectories.
2. generate-openapi-client batch -i <inputFile> -o <outputDir>
   Generate only the first matched input file found by default.
   Show a log message in case there are multiple inputs found, that batch argument is required to nest the APIs.
3. generate-openapi-client -i <inputFile> -o <outputDir> --flat
   Flatten the directory to be <outputDir>.
   Throw an error if input is a directory (with multiple files).

> 4. Keep it as is.

Reviewer: I would keep is at least before 2.0, because:
- no breaking changes
- no customer requests
- I would be confused if generating two clients has different folder structure V.S. generating one client
May be we can rename to `generate-X-clients`

Author: Decision: Keep it as is.

| **Options in OData, but not (yet in OpenAPI) generator** |
| `--forceOverwrite`                                       | `--forceOverwrite`, `-f`         | Overwrite files even it they exist, default false.                                                | Overwrite files even it they exist, default false.                                                                                |   maybe?   |
| `--generateTypedocJson`                                  | `--typedocJson`                  | Writes a default typedoc.json, default true.                                                      | Remove, use `copyFiles` instead.                                                                                                  |   maybe?   |
| **Currently hidden options**                             |
| `--additionalFiles`                                      | `--copyFiles`                    | Copy additional files, identified by glob. Hidden.                                                | Copy additional files, identified by glob. Not hidden.                                                                            |   maybe?   |

> | `--writeReadme`                                          | `--readme`                       | Writes a default README.md, default false.                                                        | Writes a default README.md, default false. Writes a custom readme if passed (or use `copyFiles`).                                 |   maybe?   |

Reviewer: For us, the links of the README should be tested no matter we have default README (current) or use `copyFiles` with a template.

Author: Yes, this can be done independently, correct?

# Generator (OpenAPI + OData) API

## Status

> proposed

Author: ```suggestion
decided
```

## Context 1

When generating only from one spec (either generator), which is probably the most common use case, when doing this mannually, the resulting folder structure is `<outputDir>/serviceDir`, which in turn is unexpected.
The name of the generator command is: `generate-X-client` indicating that only one client will be generated.

## Decision 1

1. Different behavior if only one specification is found vs. multiple.
   For one specification, put client directly into `<outputDir>`, for multiple make subdirectories.
2. `generate-openapi-client batch -i <inputFile> -o <outputDir>`
   Generate only the first matched input file found by default.
   Show a log message in case there are multiple inputs found, that batch argument is required to nest the APIs.
3. `generate-openapi-client -i <inputFile> -o <outputDir> --flat`
   Flatten the directory to be `<outputDir>`.
   Throw an error if input is a directory (with multiple files).
4. Keep it as is. (decided)
5. Rename the client:

>    1. `openapi-generator`

Author: ```suggestion
   1. `openapi-generator` (decided)
```

>    2. `sap-cloud-sdk-openapi-generator`

Author: @jjtang1985 @FrankEssenberger @artemkovalyov 
Please share your opinions here on what the name of the generator should be. Feel free to add other options (add them to the document directly).

Reviewer 2: I would go for `openapi-generator` and `odata-generator` as names

Reviewer: +1, as the second one is a bit too long, which is not type-friendly.

Author: It is decided then.

| `--inputDir`, `-i` _(required)_                          | `--input`, `-i` _(required)_     | Input directory/file                                                                              | _same_                                                                                                                                                       |  false   |
| `--outputDir`, `-o` _(required)_                         | `--outputDir`, `-o` _(required)_ | Output directory                                                                                  | _same_                                                                                                                                                       |  false   |
| `--clearOutputDir`                                       | `--clearOutputDir`               | Delete all files in output directory                                                              | _same_                                                                                                                                                       |  false   |

> | `--generateJs`                                           | `--transpile`, `-t`              | Transpiles, default true                                                                          | Transpiles, default false. Can only be set if tsconfig is enabled. This should be explicitly stated in the documentation.                                    |  false   |

Reviewer: Please correct me.
I thought, we agreed that, when `-t` was true, then the default `tsconfig` would be used, unless user provided a custom `tsconfig`. 
Without a default `tsconfig`, there would be additional effort to transpile the generated client for a js project.

Author: Good point, I thought it was already up to date. Done.

| `--generatePackageJson`                                  | `--packageJson`                  | Writes a default package.json, default true.                                                      | Writes a default package.json, default true (needs core dependency). Optionally in the future: Writes a custom package.json if passed. Keep boolean for now. |   true   |

> | `--serviceMapping`                                       | `--serviceMapping`               | Considers a service mapping file. Shows a warning if none is given (differs from OData behavior). | Changes the service mapping path. Generates it always.                                                        |   false   |

Author: @FrankEssenberger @jjtang1985 
I updated this according to [this comment](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-sdk-js/pull/1218#discussion_r615884737).

Reviewer 2: I do not get this part `Changes the service mapping path. Generates it always.`

Reviewer 2: I thought that if not given it will generate the file and use it in a potential next run so there must be a default path where the generator looks for the mapping. This should be mentioned in the description.

Reviewer: Not sure about the `Changes the service mapping path. Generates it always.`
Here is my proposal:
Is this flag has value?
- Y.
  - Does the file exist with the path?
    - Y
      - Use the provided file.
    - N
      - Generate a default file with the given path.
- N.
  - Use default path for the service mapping, generate a default file.

Author: @jjtang1985's tree is correct. This parameter is just there to provide a custom path, I will improve the wording a bit. The texts in this ADR are not the descriptions of the parameters as the users would see it.

> | `--serviceMapping`                                       | `--serviceMapping`               | Considers a service mapping file. Shows a warning if none is given (differs from OData behavior). | Considers a service mapping file. Generates it by default. Maybe in the future: Skips if set to false.                                                       |   true   |

Author: @jjtang1985 @FrankEssenberger Let me know, if we need additional alignment on this or whether here is good enough.

Reviewer 2: In general I am not a big fan of the hybrid boolean or path options. I would say generate per default and if given consider the path.

Author: Updated it, is it better now?

Reviewer 2: yes

> | `--serviceMapping`                                       | `--serviceMapping`               | Considers a service mapping file. Shows a warning if none is given (differs from OData behavior). | Changes the service mapping path. Generates it always.                                                                                                       |  false   |

Author: ```suggestion
| `--serviceMapping`                                       | `--serviceMapping`               | Considers a service mapping file. Shows a warning if none is given (differs from OData behavior). | Always generates a service-mapping. Use this property to customize the file path.                                                                                                       |  false   |
```

| `--tsConfig`                                             | `--tsConfig`                     | tsconfig.json file to overwrite the default "tsconfig.json".                                      | Writes a custom tsconfig.json if passed. Document that this should be used in combination with `transpile`.                                                  |  false   |
| `--versionInPackageJson`                                 | `--packageVersion`               | Version in package.json, default is generator version.                                            | Version in package.json, default is `1.0.0`. Hide it.                                                                                                        |  false   |
| **Options in OData, but not (yet in OpenAPI) generator** |
| `--forceOverwrite`                                       | `--overwrite`                    | Overwrite files even it they exist, default false.                                                | _same_                                                                                                                                                       |  false   |

> | `--generateTypedocJson`                                  | `--typedocJson`                  | Writes a default typedoc.json, default true.                                                      | Remove/deprecate, use `files` instead.                                                                                                                       |    -     |

Reviewer: I'm also fine with this. But as a user, I will now have to learn how to make a config file (which is really simple as a basic config).

Author: Agreed.
